# Upcoming QC Questions for Monday Jan. 3rd :
> Topics: <br>
> - Review this [HTTP Study Guide](https://github.com/220531-Enterprise/demos/blob/main/4-servlets-devops/notes/http.md)
> - [Servlets](#servlets)
> - [AWS](#aws)
> - [DevOps](#devops)
> - [Docker](#docker) <br>

<br>

## HTTP
- Review Study guide [here](https://github.com/220214-Enterprise-Angular/demos/blob/main/4-servlets-devops/notes/http.md)


<br>

## Servlets

1.  What is a servlet? What about a servlet container? Which servlet container have you worked with?
    
2.  Describe the servlet class inheritance hierarchy. What methods are declared in each class or interface?
    
3.  How would you create your own servlet?
    
4.  What is the deployment descriptor? What file configures your servlet container?
    
5.  Explain the lifecycle of a servlet - what methods are called and when are they called?
    
6.  Is eager or lazy loading of servlets the default? How would you change this?
    
7.  What are some tags you would find in the web.xml file?
    
8.  What is the difference between the ServletConfig and ServletContext objects? How do you retrieve these in your servlet?
    
9.  What is the purpose of the RequestDispatcher?
    
10.  Explain the difference between RequestDispatcher.forward() and HttpServletResponse.sendRedirect()
    
11.  What are some different ways of tracking a session with servlets?
    
12.  What is object mapping? Any Java libraries for this?
    
13.  How would you send text or objects back in the body of the HTTP response from a servlet?
    
14.  What is the difference between getParameter() and getAttribute() methods?
    
15.  Explain the front controller design pattern

<br>

## AWS
1. What are the benefits of cloud services?

2. What are the 3 models of Cloud computing?

3. What is AWS RDS? What type of service is this? Iaas, Paas, Saas?

4. What is the relationship between a Region and an Availability Zone?

5. What are Security Groups?

6. Explain what an EC2 is.

7. What is EBS?

8. What's an Amazon AMI?

9. What is an RDS?

10. What's the difference between Horizontal and Vertical Scaling? 

11. What is Amazon IAM? (*DON'T* confuse this with AMI!)

<br>

## Docker
1. What is Docker?

2. What's a Dockerfile? Image? Container?

3. What is Containerization? How is it different from Virtualization?

4. List some docker commands that you've used.

5. What is the *first* line in a `Dockerfile`?

6. What is the command you run to `build` and image from a `Dockerfile`.

7. What is the command you run to `run` a container from an image?

<br>

## DevOps
1. What is DevOps? What is the goal of various DevOps processes?
   > DevOps is a set of practices that combines software development and IT operations. It aims to shorten the systems development life cycle and provide continuous delivery with high software quality.

2. Explain CI/CD. (Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery)

3. What is AWS Codebuild and Code Pipeline?

4. What tools have you used to achieve CI/CD? Explain how you’ve setup and used them

5. What is a DevOps pipeline? Explain the steps to setting one up
   - A DevOps pipeline is a set of practices that the development (Dev) and operations (Ops) teams implement to build, test, and deploy software faster and easier. 
   - One of the primary purposes of a pipeline is to keep the software development process organized and focused.

   - **Steps in setting one up**:
      - A good pipeline consists of an automation tool to assist in integrating the teams code (**CI - Continuous Integration**) building the code and testing it (**CD - Continuous Delivery**), and deploying it to end users (**CD - Continuous Deployment**). 

6. What is a “build”? What is the end result of a build? What is the build tool you’ve used for Java projects?
   - * A **build** refers to the process that converts files and other assets under the developers' responsibility into a software product in its final or consumable form. The build may include: compiling source files. packaging compiled files into compressed formats (such as jar, zip, war).


7. What are the Maven lifecycles? List the steps in the build lifecycle:
   - The Maven build follows a specific life cycle to deploy and distribute the target project.
   - There are three built-in life cycles:
      - `default`: the main life cycle as it's responsible for project deployment
      - `clean`: to clean the project and remove all files generated by the previous build
      - `site`: to create the project's site documentation

<br>
